Multiple types of roles in Data Science

Data Analyst   - BI Analyst
Data Scientist  - ML Engineer
Data Engineer
Business Analyst

What is common between all this role
- Data is common 

Most of coporate store data in RDBMS (relational database management system)

to fetch data we use structure query language
mySQL,SQLServer ,Oracle ,PLSQL Postgre,sparkSQL etc.
Fetch and manipulate.


if you go to any companies python is the top required  now days.

why python is important ?

lot of companies use python now days.
as you know any job that you go you will see  python is the top requirements
 now think why is that

can you give 2 to 3 reasons why companies prefer python 

why it is universaly expected.

1. open source : Free to use
2. libraries - numpy,pandas,matplotlib,seaborn if want to do machine learning statmods,scikit learn 
    (lot of libraries that are pre created you can use it)
3. Easy to learn - Almost english like with some syntaxes.
    if you compare python is 1000 times easier than jave or c++.

4. Great community support  
if you search for any error on google you will find an answer for it.
because all of people use python and they come across that error

they post those errors online people solve it.


In python you not  only build machine learning model but
 you can build machine learning model.
data analysis
website
games
GUI

we are learning python for Data science

lets see how Data science projects work:
--------------------------------------------------------
Step 0 : understanding the problem statement  
             collecting data

step 1 : importing the libraries in python
            importing data

step 2:  inspecting the data

step 3:  Data cleaning
            in this we will do missing value treatment and outlier  treatment

step 4: EDA - Exploratory Data Analysis.
            viz.
            uni /BI / Multi variate Analysis.

Step 5: Feature transformation  & Feature Engg. when we learn machine learning.

Step 6 : Model Building
            ...
            multiple steps in this 

step 7: Finalizing Models / Improving.

you have learned about Python Data types:
1. list []
2. Tuples - ()
3. Dict :{key:value}
4. set: {} do not contain any duplicates


Numpy - Numerical Python
----------------------------------------
What ever aggregation or mathematical function you do it come from numpy libraries
any thing numerical you do comes from numpy library.


then we use pandas -> pandas is where you load data and manipulation
what kinds of manipulation

ones we have done pandas we will  do vizualization multiple libraries.
 1. pandas
2. matplotlib
3.seaborn

if you want build career in Data science numpy ,pandas will be there through out .


Example :

Id    Name
1      Syed 
2       Mohit      -> you can load this data in pandas DataFrame.

if want to add id you use numpy library 1+2
if want Upper case we use pandas text function


python libraries are endless in nature you should also explore you knowlege.






 